
=* A Distributed Proofreaders Canada eBook *=

This ebook is made available at no cost and with very few restrictions.

_Title:_ Lost Horizon
_Date of first publication:_ 1936
_Author:_ James Hilton (1900-1954)
_Date first posted:_ Nov. 6, 2018
_Date last updated:_ Nov. 6, 2018
Faded Page eBook #20181110







                          [Cover Illustration]






                         NOVELS BY JAMES HILTON
                                  ————
                         AND NOW GOODBYE
                         CONTANGO
                         KNIGHT WITHOUT ARMOUR
                         MURDER AT SCHOOL
                         CATHERINE HERSELF
                         THE SILVER FLAME






                        L O S T   H O R I Z O N



                                   BY
                              JAMES HILTON

                     MACMILLAN  AND  CO.,  LIMITED
                     ST.  MARTIN'S  STREET,  LONDON
                                  1936




                               COPYRIGHT

                         _First published 1933_
                       _The Cottage Library 1936_


                        PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
                  BY R. & R. CLARK, LIMITED, EDINBURGH




                                PROLOGUE




Cigars had burned low, and we were beginning to sample the disillusionment...





                                CHAPTER 1

During that third week of May the situation in Baskul had become much worse...





                                CHAPTER 2

The journey was expected to be long and perilous...

gave him a most charming smile, but her eyes were all for the boy.
“What life?”

“The life you’re thinking of . . . dinners . . . dances . . . polo . . .
all that. . . .”

“But I never said anything about dances and polo! Anyhow, what’s wrong
with them? D’you mean that you’re not coming with me? You’re going to
stay here like the other two? Then at least you shan’t stop _me_ from
clearing out of it!” Mallinson threw down his cigarette and sprang
towards the door with eyes blazing. “You’re off your head!” he cried
wildly. “You’re mad, Conway, that’s what’s the matter with you! I know
you’re always calm, and I’m always excited, but I’m sane, at any rate,
and you’re not! They warned me about it before I joined you at Baskul,
and I thought they were wrong, but now I can see they weren’t——”

“To Lo-Tsen?”

“Yes, if you want to know.”

Conway got up and held out his hand. “Good-bye, Mallinson.”

“For the last time, you’re not coming?”

“I can’t.”

“Good-bye, then.”

They shook hands, and Mallinson left.



Conway sat alone in the lantern-light. It seemed to him, in a phrase
engraved on memory, that all the loveliest things were transient and
perishable, that the two worlds were finally beyond reconciliation, and
that one of them hung, as always, by a thread. After he had pondered for
some time he looked at his watch; it was ten minutes to three.





                                EPILOGUE


IT WAS in Delhi that I met Rutherford again. We had been guests at a
Viceregal dinner-party, but distance and ceremonial kept us apart until
the turbaned flunkeys handed us our hats afterwards. “Come back to my
hotel and have a drink,” he invited.

“You thought it might be easier to look for the valley of Blue Moon?”

“Well, it did seem as if it might be a more fixed proposition. I suppose
you glanced at that manuscript of mine?”

“Much more than glanced at it. I should have returned it, by the way,
but you left no address.”

Rutherford nodded. “I wonder what you made of it?”

Rutherford flicked his cigar as if the narration had excited him quite
as much as he hoped it had me. Continuing, he said: “The little fellow
looked at me solemnly for a moment, and then answered in that funny
clipped English that the educated Chinese have—‘Oh no, she was most
old—most old of anyone I have ever seen.’”



We sat for a long time in silence, and then talked again of Conway as I
remembered him, boyish and gifted and full of charm, and of the War that
had altered him, and of so many mysteries of time and age and of the
mind, and of the little Manchu who had been ‘most old,’ and of the
strange ultimate dream of Blue Moon. “Do you think he will ever find
it?” I asked.

WOODFORD GREEN
  April 1933
                                THE END
   _Printed in Great Britain by_ R. & R. CLARK, LIMITED, _Edinburgh_.




                           TRANSCRIBER NOTES

Misspelled words and printer errors have been corrected. Where multiple
spellings occur, majority use has been employed.

Punctuation has been maintained except where obvious printer errors
occur.

[The end of _Lost Horizon_ by James Hilton]
